#3. An LIF model (Leaky integrate and fire) model is a model in which the behavior of a neuron is simulated as a measure of membrane poteintial over time. The benefits include its simplicity in implementation when attempting to model biological neuron behavior. Though suimple in design, the LIF model can often oversimplify biological neuronal funciton and may fail to account for changes in threshold, synaptic plasticity, etc.
#An LIF model with a voltage-gated sodium channel factored in operates in the same way, but more accurately models the workings of an action potential with the rapid depolarization and refractory model. As a result, benefits of using the model include its ability to better model a an action potential including the cell's ability to excite and fire. A major limitation, however, is its increased complexity and strain on computing power. In addition, it can be slow and inefficient to compute large-scale networks.
#Simple neural networks are computational models that are more concerned with the interconnectedness of neurons in the brain and utilize nodes organized into layers to compute data. Benefits of using this model include its ability to take in a variety of different data depending on how many layers the model has while being able to process more than one stream of information at once through parlallel processing. Limitations of such a model include difficults interpreting the hidden layer in between the input and out put in addition to the large amounts of data that are needed to train the model to compute effectively.
#Overall, simple neural networks are the most complex and contain the most bits of information. Simple neural networks can contain multiple hidden layers that better represent the complexity of the factors that contribute to neural connections between 2 cells. Even if LIF contain voltage-gated sodium channels to better represent the transmission of aciton potentials and depolarization of the cell to reach threshold, it still doesn't model other factors that can contribute to the communication of information between cells such as summation of graded potentials, threshold changes, etc. Furthermore, simple neural networks are ANNs and DNN that allow for feature detection, which allows it to learn from its own programming while processing vast amounts of information. In comparison, both LIF models do not reach the complexity of ANN and cannot process or adapt to the vast amounts of information that may be inputted into the model.
#The LIF model without voltage-gated sodium channels is more concise as it is the least complex. LIF models simply integrate signals and produces an action potential spike when threshold is met. Compared to the other two models that are able to integrate more information and better model the behavior of neural connections, the simple LIF model is the most concise as its computational capabilities are the simplest.
